---
layout: post
title: Creativity, Inc. - Overcoming The Unseen Forces That Stand In The Way Of True Inspiration
category: books
tags: [books, non-fiction]
book_type: Audible
authors: Ed Catmull, Amy Wallace
---

<img src="http://books.google.com/books/content?id=bLpPEAAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&img=1&zoom=1&source=gbs_api"/>

**Creativity, Inc. - Overcoming The Unseen Forces That Stand In The Way Of True Inspiration** by Ed Catmull, Amy Wallace

<sup>isbn-13: 9780812993011</sup>

*Audible*

**Publisher's Description:**
"From a co-founder of Pixar Animation Studios—the Academy Award–winning
studio behind Coco, Inside Out, and Toy Story—comes an incisive book about
creativity in business and leadership for readers of Daniel Pink, Tom
Peters, and Chip and Dan Heath. NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLER | NAMED ONE OF
THE BEST BOOKS OF THE YEAR BY The Huffington Post • Financial Times •
Success • Inc. • Library Journal Creativity, Inc. is a manual for anyone
who strives for originality and the first-ever, all-access trip into the
nerve center of Pixar Animation—into the meetings, postmortems, and
“Braintrust” sessions where some of the most successful films in history
are made. It is, at heart, a book about creativity—but it is also, as Pixar
co-founder and president Ed Catmull writes, “an expression of the ideas
that I believe make the best in us possible.” For nearly twenty years,
Pixar has dominated the world of animation, producing such beloved films as
the Toy Story trilogy, Monsters, Inc., Finding Nemo, The Incredibles, Up,
WALL-E, and Inside Out, which have gone on to set box-office records and
garner thirty Academy Awards. The joyousness of the storytelling, the
inventive plots, the emotional authenticity: In some ways, Pixar movies are
an object lesson in what creativity really is. Here, in this book, Catmull
reveals the ideals and techniques that have made Pixar so widely
admired—and so profitable. As a young man, Ed Catmull had a dream: to make
the first computer-animated movie. He nurtured that dream as a Ph.D.
student at the University of Utah, where many computer science pioneers got
their start, and then forged a partnership with George Lucas that led,
indirectly, to his co-founding Pixar in 1986. Nine years later, Toy Story
was released, changing animation forever. The essential ingredient in that
movie’s success—and in the thirteen movies that followed—was the unique
environment that Catmull and his colleagues built at Pixar, based on
leadership and management philosophies that protect the creative process
and defy convention, such as: • Give a good idea to a mediocre team, and
they will screw it up. But give a mediocre idea to a great team, and they
will either fix it or come up with something better. • If you don’t strive
to uncover what is unseen and understand its nature, you will be ill
prepared to lead. • It’s not the manager’s job to prevent risks. It’s the
manager’s job to make it safe for others to take them. • The cost of
preventing errors is often far greater than the cost of fixing them. • A
company’s communication structure should not mirror its organizational
structure. Everybody should be able to talk to anybody."